There are several different ways to kick off or frame a sales conversation. On the podcast this week, I'm running down the pros and cons of the most common ones:

1️⃣ Starting with Discovery Questions - Discovery is important in a first substantive sales call with a qualified prospect. We need to do it early in the call, but starting there doesn't give us a chance to frame the conversation around our point of view on the market. It also leaves us open to following along with the customer's framing - which could easily have come from conversations with competitors. 

2️⃣ Starting with "the Change in the World" - I think this can work in some cases, particularly where the only competitive alternative is the status quo. The downside is that this change applies to your competitors as much as it does to you and doesn't set up your differentiated value in any meaningful way. It also doesn't give us a smooth way to transition to discovery - leading many reps to lead with discovery and then awkwardly switch gears to "the change."

3️⃣ Leading with "The Problem" - similar to leading with "the change," "the problem" is often generic and solved just as well by your competitors. It isn't a terrible way to start, but it doesn't give us a way to set up our differentiated value. Starting with defining the problem also always felt weird to me - the customer deeply understands their problem, and they don't need us to teach them about it. They want our perspective on solutions to that problem, so why not just start there?

4️⃣ Leading with Our Unique Insight into the Market - To me, this is a better way to frame up a sales conversation. We start with our perspective on the situation, or put another way - our unique understanding of the problem. You can think of this as the answer to the question - "Why our product does things differently than the others." This frames our unique value right from the beginning. It also serves as a great setup to lead into a discovery conversation.
